Amla and Triphala Tested for Metals
If Ayurvedic herbal preparations are
often contaminated with toxic metals,
should we stay away
from amla and triphala,
two of the three most
antioxidant-packed foods in the world?
Are we going to be forced
to go back to cloves,
number four down the list?
In the Boston study, both amla and
triphala were repeatedly tested—
different samples,
different brands—
and not a single one had any detectable
lead, mercury, arsenic, or cadmium.
Good news.
And neither had any detectable
pesticides, either.
But maybe that’s just Boston.
If you want to do a broad survey
of the global market,
you need to start shopping
on the internet.
Published in the Journal of the
American Medical Association:
“Lead, Mercury, and Arsenic
in…Ayurvedic Medicines Sold
via the Internet.”
Once again, one-fifth of the medicines:
contaminated.
When the Boston study came out,
there were calls for mandatory testing
of all imported dietary supplements
for toxic heavy metals.
But this study found that the
prevalence of metals in
U.S.-manufactured
Ayurvedic medicine
was the same,
if not higher,
than those imported from India.
They found lead levels violating safety
limits in products with names like
“Worry Free,” a pediatric preparation.
Mercury in products like “Breath of Life.”
And arsenic levels exceeding
EPA limits in triphala.
Mercury in triphala,
and lead in triphala.
Okay, I guess we can
scratch that off the list.
That’s why my smoothies have amla,
not triphala.
Just to put things in perspective, though,
Consumer Reports recently remeasured
mercury levels in canned tuna,
and while a serving of triphala
may have 46 micrograms of mercury,
the average can of
white tuna has 1,345.
But as far as I’m concerned,
practically any mercury
is too much mercury.